Interview Methods:

#####ANSIBLE:
Ansible-- Role, template, Handlers. 
What are Adhock Commands Why we need them
How to get detailed logs and output while executing playbook command
What is Ansible.cfg file
Ansible 5 modules used in work
Which module is used to Copy a file from node to master
Five task two on Local and remaining on Node
Master and Node setup process
Ansible roles and need of it.
Ansible Galaxy
Ansible Facts
Ansible master as Windows? What windows module you worked? Configurations needed to work with windows
How to make our YAML files reusable?
Ansible Vault and Ansible tower?
How to run a playbook as root user?
Diff b/w copy and Fetch Module?
What we need ansible
Can we create custom Modules
What is dynamic inventory in ansible
Anible play book to play on Ubuntu and Centos
How to handle prompts with ansible palybook -y we gives how to code in playbook


####DOCKER
Version of Docker using
5 Best Practices of Docker
ANS:1.CMD VS RUN ----> Lot may run increases layers and size Less runs and using shell commnds execution
    2. Base image vs scratch
	3. Once dependency files should should be there and other remove
	
Docker Kill VS Docker Stop
command for listing all the exited containers
How to clean up docker host(Not used images)
Can we have Multiple CMD in Docker file?
Docker Swarm and Docker Compose
Docker save and Docker Load
Have worked on Multistage Dockerfile? Why we need that?
can we copy a file from local to docker container without login into docker container
A volume is attached to container. If container crashes what happen to volume?
ADD VS COPY in Docker File
Huge file has to be sent to daemon which takes much time. How will you send in better method?
Command to remove stopped and running containers?
Inside container many changes like delete, create, modify but I want to check which file is deleted and which action has been taken. What is the command?
ONBUILD instruction in Dockerfile
use of .dockerignore file
In dockerfile how to give arg. If supply 1 gives maven 2.x version. supply 2 gives  maven latest how?



###KUBERNETES
Can we have multiple ontainers in a pod?
Can we have same containers in a pod
Two container in a pod. One is working other not. How can we find which one is not working
What is Liveliness and Readiness probes? Why we need them?
Monotoring tool of kubernetes if worked
Can we deploy a particular pod on to a particular node
What is init and side-car containers? Where we use these?
Which one is Default deployment strategy? How it works?
Command to check logs in POD
Service types in KUBERNETES?
Ans: ClusterIP, Node POrt, LoadBalancer ....
What is the link between pod and service
Objects in Kubernetes? Explain about them?
Commands to list pods and deployments
components in master node and slave nodes
what is stateful sets in kubernetes?
Tools to maintain kubernetes log files




#####GIT
Which Branching Strategy
How to Git pull vs Git fetch
Git clone a specific branch
Git folder name is changed after cloning. One of your team mate asked to share the link. How will i get.
ANS: goto .git folder and check from where last commit is done.
How to clone a specific branch or master Branch and the last commit only.
Ans: $ git clone <link> -b master -death 1
What is Sub-Module and why we need sub module
Multiple file added to git. One of the file i want to take out of staging area?
GIT Cherrypick
Git stash
Conflicts in git
Command to list all the Branches
git reset. Types of git reset
How to delete local branch and remote branch
Diff b/w git diff and git status
What are hooks in Git

 


####TERRAFORM:
Technology stacks used in company --- terraform
DF state in terraform



###AWS: 
How you achieve Autoscaling in AWS
How to copy file from windows to AWS machine
What are role and Policies in AWS IAM
50 users have to give same permission how?
Programatic access how will you give
Ec2 Machine I have installed many apps. I want to create same config machine. How?
AMI region specific. How to use same AMI in other region?
Why we need security groups? What is default outbound rules?
What is VPC? Brief about VPC?
Which load balancers your worked and difference between those
How to auto scale is done?
Auto Sacling rule load goes more than 60% create a new. Inst1 62%, Inst2 30%, Inst3 30#. Will it create new instance?
Ans: Auto scaling takes Avg of three machines
 


###Shell:
What is shebang in shell? Why we use it?
How to replace a specific word in shell
How to get present working folder in shell
How to find the position of A B C D where A,B,C,B position changes. Give the value of the position 
Script to find directory or a file. If dir remove the dir else show as file
How to check whether a particular port is used or not
Script for Palindrome or not
Command to get no of line in a file
File with Ip Address. List unique IP addresses with no of time its present in file
ANS:  cat <file name> | unique -n
What is Exit status in UNIX
How to display the save file name in shell script Ex: Magic.sh ---> This is from Magic.sh ; Change to Magic-test.sh  ----> This is from Magic-test.sh
Ans: Echo $0
Command to find empty files in a given directory
SSH connectivity in two machine. What files present in .ssh
How to schedule a shell script in unix machine
How to identify IP addresses in log file and count of IP addresses in log file
Command to get load average?

 



