AZURE STORAGE
Four Types
1. Blob 
2. File
3. Queue
4. Tables

1.Blob Storage:
Massively scalable object store for text and binary data
Ideal for
Serving images or documents to a browser like s3
Streaming Video and audio
Store data for backup and restore, archiving
Storing files for distributed access


Blobs are seperated into containers. Each container have file or files
Blob storage Access Tier:
Azure storage provides option for accessing block blob data
1. Hot: For frequent access of objects
2. Cool: Optimized for storing large amount of data that is infrequently accessedand stored for at least 30days
3. Archive (Cheap): Optimized for data that can tolerate several hours of retrieval latency and will remain in the Archive tier for atleast 180 days

*** Note: Blob Soft Delete is a option where we get versioning for all opertions. Even after delete we can get back them using versions.

2.FILE STORAGE:
Managed file shares for cloud or on-premises deployments.
File storage are seperated into Shares. Each Share has a file or files and folders
FileStorage is like creating of disk on a local machine where we can store data that is copied to that drive in Azure storage.
Like backup drive where files are stored. Using SMB 3.0 method.
Process: Create File Service > Click on created File Service one > Connect > Copy the connect code.
It contains address of server + User Name + Key/Password
After drive letters: is Address of server Ex: \\abcdemo.file.core.windows.net\myfile
After /u: is User name and Key  Ex: /u:Azure\abcdemo wekfwwoIbcdsofOHJp:]DDSPDDCCODC.....

My computer > right click on This PC > Map Network Drive > Assign Drive letter > Folder > Finish > Enter Username and Password(Key). > OK
We can see a new drive in MYcomputer.


3.STORAGE QUEUE:
A messaging store for reliable messaging between application components.
Storage ques are separated into Queues. Each queues consists of Messages.

4.TABLE STORAGE:
A NoSQL store for schemaless storage of structurd data
Storage Tables seperated into Tables. Each Table is divided into Rows and Columns of Data.

Storage Performancce Tier:
1.Standard Performance Tier: For storing blobs, files, tables, queues and Azure virtual machine disks
2.Premium Performance Tier: For storing unmanaged virtual machine disks only

Data Redundancy:
1.Local-redundant Storage (LRS): One Location one datacenter with replication in same datacenter
2.Zone redundant Storage (ZRS): Different zones in one region with replications in all the zones
3.Geo redundant storage (GRS): Different regions with replication in different regions.
4.Read-access geo redundant storage (RA-GRS): Different regions with replication in different regions. But Replication region has only read acces.



